# Technical Blog
#### Github, git, and Version Control
#### 10/12/2014

Version control is a developer's best friend.  It allows them to track the changes they make to their code, kind of like how you would save you document in word.  With Version Control, developers don't have to worry about writing a new line a code that might crash their project because they can always go back to a previously saved version.  Where Version Control differs from other save managment systems is that it is very useful with a project that has many collaborators because of a feature called merging, which takes the saved states, otherwise called commits, from two different people and combines them into one without undoing eachothers work.  It even details when each commit was made, who made it, and what they removed or added.  There are quite a few different Version Control systems around but one of the most popular is git.

Through typing different git specific commands into your command line, for example: git commit, you can implement Version Control into your project and keep track of every change you make.  Once you have git follow the folder your project is stored in, git will track every addition and edit that has been made to that project, including when, where, and who made it, which you can view by typing "git status" into the command line.  You can even use git to upload your changes to Github.

Github is a fantastic place to store your code, especially when working on a large project with a group of people.  With Github the team has a central hub to store their code where they can check for new edits or additions, or even upload their own changes to the project.  Thanks to git, every change is tracked and organized so it doesn't become one big complete mess.  